# Lab Answer Key:  Module 4: Virtual Machines
## Lab 1: Creating a Linux Virtual Machine
  
Lab Steps

- Install Git for Windows
- Create cryptographic keys
- Create a Linux virtual machine by using the Azure portal
- Connect to the Linux virtual machine by using the PuTTY utility

Please note that the virtual machine that you will create in this lab will also be used in the next lab of this course. 

### Exercise 1: Creating Cryptographic Keys
  
Scenario: In this exercise you will create cryptographic keys that you will use to connect via PuTTY to the Azure virtual machine that you deploy later in this lab.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Install Git for Windows

2. Create a key pair

3. Create a private key for PuTTY

#### Task 1: Install Git for Windows


1. Start Internet Explorer and browse to https://git-for-windows.github.io/ 

2. Click on the **Download** link.

3. When prompted whether to run or save the Git executable, click **Run**.

4. In the Git 2.11.0 Setup wizard, accept the default settings and complete the install.

5. Once the install completes, on the **Completing the Git Setup Wizard** page, select the **Launch Git Bash** checkbox and click **Finish**. Alternatively, from the Start menu (or screen), start **Git Bash**.

#### Task 2: Create a key pair

1. In the **Git Bash window**, run the following:

  ```
openssl.exe req -x509 -nodes -days 365 -newkey rsa:2048 \
     -keyout myPrivateKey.key -out myCert.pem
  ```

2. When prompted, provide the information to be incorporated into the certificate you are generating, including country code, state or province, locality name, organization name, organizational unit, common name, and email address (for the purpose of this lab, you can use made up values).

3. Generate a public key by running:

  ```
openssl.exe rsa -pubout -in myPrivateKey.key -out myPublicKey.key
  ```

#### Task 3: Create a private key for PuTTY

1. Convert the private key you generated in the previous task into a private key that you will be able to use with the PuTTY utility. In the **Git Bash** window, run the following:

  ```
openssl rsa -in ./myPrivateKey.key -out myPrivateKey_rsa
  ```
 
2. Download PuTTYgen from http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/download.html to the C:\Users\_*username* folder, where *username* is your Windows user account name. This is the same location where the keys you generated in the previous task reside. 

3. In the File Explorer window, double-click **puttygen.exe**.

4. In the **PuTTY Key Generator** window, click **Load**.

5. In the **Load private key** dialog box, make sure that the current directory is C:\Users\_*username*, where *username* is the name of your user account, change filter to **All Files (*.*)**, select **myPrivateKey_rsa** and click **Open**.

6. In the **PuTTYgen Notice** dialog box, click **OK**.

7. Copy the entire content of the **Public key for pasting into OpenSSH authorized_keys file** section of the **PuTTY Key Generator** window into Clipboard.

8. In the **PuTTY Key Generator** window, click **Save private key**

9. Save the private key as **myPrivateKey_rsa.ppk** in the C:\Users\username directory (where username is your Windows user name). Click **Yes** in the **PuTTYgen Warning** dialog box, when prompted whether to save the key without a passphrase to protect it. Note that you have the option of protecting it with a passphrase.

Note: Outside of a lab environment, you should use a passphrase and file system permission to protect your private key.

### Exercise 2: Create and connect to a Linux virtual machine

Scenario: In this exercise you will create a new Linux virtual machine by using the Azure portal and use the key you generated to connect to it.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create a new Linux virtual machine by using the Azure portal

2. Connect to the Linux virtual machine by using PuTTY


#### Task 1: Create a new virtual machine
 
1. Start Internet Explorer and browse to https://portal.azure.com 

2. Click on the **+New** link.

3. Select Compute in the blade that comes up.

4. In the Compute blade select **See all**.

5. In the Filter text box, type **Ubuntu Server** and press **Enter**

6. In the list of results, click the latest recommended version of the Ubuntu Server.

7. Ensure that the deployment type is set to Resource Manager and click **Create**.

8. On the Basics blade, specify the following and click **OK**.
 
-  Name: **LABLinuxVM**
 
-  VM disk type: **HDD**
 
-  User name: **Student**
 
-  Authentication type: **SSH public key**
 
-  SSH public key: paste the content of Clipboard
 
-  Resource group: create a new resource group called **LABLinuxRG**
 
-  Location: an Azure region closest to your physical location

9. On the Choose a size blade, click **DS1_V2** size and click **Select**.

10. On the **Settings** blade, accept the default settings and click **OK**.

11. On the **Summary** page, click **OK**

#### Task 2: Connect to the Linux virtual machine by using PuTTY

**Note**: You need to wait until the new virtual machine has been provisioned. This should take a couple of minutes. The Azure portal will automatically display the new blade showing the settings of the new virtual machine.

1. In the Azure portal, in the Overview section of the LABLinuxVM blade, note the Public IP address assigned to the VM

2. Start Internet Explorer and browse to http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/download.html

3. Download putty.exe to your computer and click **Run** when prompted.

4. In the **PuTTY Configuration** window, type the IP address you noted in step 1 in the **Host Name (or IP address)** text box.

5. In the **Category** section of the **PuTTY Configuration** window, expand the **Connection->SSH->Auth** nodes.

6. Click **Browse** next to the **Private key file for authentication** text box.

7. In the **Select private key file** dialog box, navigate to the C:\Users\username directory (where username is your Windows user name), select **myPrivateKey_rsa.ppk** and click **Open**.

8. When prompted by the **PuTTY Security Alert**, click **Yes**.

9. In the **PuTTY** window, when prompted for the username, type in **Student** and verify that you have successfully authenticated.
