# Lab Answer Key:  Module 4: Virtual Machines
## Lab 3: Creating a Windows Virtual Machine
  
In this lab you will learn how to create a Windows virtual machine by using the Azure portal

### Exercise 1: Creating an Windows virtual machine running Windows
  
The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Log into the Azure portal

2. Create a new virtual machine


#### Task 1: Log into the Azure portal

Launch a browser and navigate to https://portal.azure.com. Once prompted, login with your Microsoft Azure credentials. If prompted, choose whether your account is a work or school account or a Microsoft Account.

Note: You may need to launch an "in-private" session in your browser if you have multiple Microsoft Accounts.

#### Task 2: Create a new virtual machine

1. Click on the **+ New** link.

2. Select **Compute**.

3. In the **Compute** blade select **See all**.

4. This presents the compute related gallery of resources from which you can select an image to create an instance.

5. Use the Search feature to find an image. Begin entering **Visual Studio Community 2015** in the search box.

6. Click **Visual Studio Community 2015 Update 3 with Azure SDK 2.9 on Windows Server 2012 R2**.

7. Click the image for **Visual Studio Community 2015 Update 3 with Azure SDK 2.9 on Windows Server 2012 R2**.

8. Set the deployment model to **Resource Manager** and click **Create**.

9. Set the following configuration on the Basics blade and click **OK**:

- Name: **LABVM**
- VM disk type: **HDD**
- User name: **demouser**
- Password: **DemoPa$$w0rd**
- Subscription: If you have multiple subscriptions choose the subscription used for this course.
- Resource Group: **LABRG**
- Location: Choose the closest Azure region to you

10. Choose the **D1_V2 Standard** instance size on the **Size** blade.
Note: We could use one of the recommended configurations, but if you are using a trial Azure subscription there is a restriction of 4 cores per region. Hence we are choosing a lower configuration.

11. Accept the default values on the **Settings** blade and click OK to reach the **Summary** blade.

12. On the **Summary** blade, click **OK** to provision the virtual machine.
Note: It may take 5-10 minutes for the virtual machine to fully provision.

14. After the virtual machine is created, the portal will automatically display its blade. Click the **Connect** button on the toolbar.
Note: Depending on your remote desktop protocol client and browser configuration you will either be prompted to open an RDP file or you can download it and then open it to connect.

15. Login with the credentials specified earlier in this procedure.

- User: **demouser**
- Password: **DemoPa$$w0rd**
